Hello AssetMapper Documentation (#18370)
symfony/symfony-docs: frontend/asset_mapper.rst

AssetMapper: Simple, Modern CSS & JS Management

> ===============================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===============================================

.. versionadded:: 5.1

    The AssetMapper component was introduced as an
    :doc:`experimental feature </contributing/code/experimental>` in
    Symfony 6.3.
```

AssetMapper lets you write modern JavaScript and CSS without the complexity
of using a bundler. Browsers *already* support modern JavaScript features
like the ``import`` statement and ES6 classes. With a little help from

> AssetMapper, you can have a production-ready setup without a build system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AssetMapper lets you write modern JavaScript and CSS without the complexity
of using a bundler. Browsers *already* support many modern JavaScript features,
like the ``import`` statement and ES6 classes. And the now default HTTP 2 protocol
means you need to worry less about the number of connections. The AssetMapper
component provides helpers to integrate assets without a build system.
```

Or the like. I think the advantages brought by HTTP 2 are very important to mention as well (as they solve a lot of the reasons to use bundlers in the first place). We can take inspiration from Propshaft's first paragraph:

> It's built for an era where bundling assets to save on HTTP connections is no longer urgent, where JavaScript and CSS are either compiled by dedicated Node.js bundlers or served directly to the browsers, and where increases in bandwidth have made the need for minification less pressing.

AssetMapper has two main features:

1. :ref:`Mapping & Versioning Assets <mapping-assets>`: All files inside of ``assets/``
   are made available publicly and **versioned**. For example, you can reference
   ``assets/styles/app.css`` in a template with ``{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}``.
   The final URL will include a version hash, like ``/assets/styles/app-3c16d9220694c0e56d8648f25e6035e9.css``.

1. :ref:`Importmaps <importmaps-javascript>`: A native browser feature that makes it easier
   to use the JavaScript ``import`` statement (e.g. ``import { Modal } from 'bootstrap'``)
   without a build system. It's supported in all browsers (thanks to a shim)

>    and is a W3C standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Mapping & Versioning Assets <mapping-assets>`: All files inside of ``assets/``
  are made available publicly and **versioned**. For example, you can reference
  ``assets/styles/app.css`` in a template with ``{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}``.
  The final URL will include a version hash, like ``/assets/styles/app-3c16d9220694c0e56d8648f25e6035e9.css``.

* :ref:`Importmaps <importmaps-javascript>`: A native browser feature that makes it easier
  to use the JavaScript ``import`` statement (e.g. ``import { Modal } from 'bootstrap'``)
  without a build system. It's supported in all browsers (thanks to a shim)
  and is a `W3C standard <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#import-maps>`_.
```

> AssetMapper is currently `experimental`_ and may change in future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(replaced by the versionadded directive at the top, which is consistent with prior experimental features)

Installation
------------

To install the AssetMapper component, run:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/asset-mapper symfony/asset symfony/twig-pack

> This will install AssetMapper and also make sure that you have the Asset Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will install AssetMapper and also make sure that you have the :doc:`Asset Component </components/asset>`
```

and Twig available.

If you're using :ref:`Symfony Flex <symfony-flex>`, you're done! The recipe just
added a number of files:

* ``assets/app.js`` Your main JavaScript file;
* ``assets/styles/app.css`` Your main CSS file;
* ``config/packages/asset_mapper.yaml`` Where you define your asset "paths";
* ``importmap.php`` Your importmap config file.

> It also *updated* your ``templates/base.html.twig`` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also *updated* the ``templates/base.html.twig`` file:
```

.. code-block:: diff

    {% block stylesheets %}
    +    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}">
    {% endblock %}

    {% block javascripts %}
    +    {{ importmap() }}
    {% endblock %}

If you're not using Flex, you'll need to create & update these files manually. See
the `latest asset-mapper recipe`_ for the exact content of these files.

.. _mapping-assets:

Mapping and Referencing Assets
------------------------------

> AssetMapper works by defining directories/paths of assets that you want to expose

Reviewer: Maybe replace "AssetMapper" with "The AssetMapper component" everywhere? As a non-native, using "AssetMapper" as a noun sounds a bit strange, and we seem to always use "The ... component" when referring to the main feature of a component.

publicly. These assets are then versioned and easy to reference. Thanks to the
``asset_mapper.yaml`` file, your app starts with one mapped path: the ``assets/``
directory.

If you create an ``assets/images/duck.png`` file, you can reference it in a template with:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    <img src="{{ asset('images/duck.png') }}">

The path - ``images/duck.png`` - is relative to your mapped directory (``assets/``).
This is known as the **logical path** to your asset.

If you look at the HTML in your page, the URL will be something
like: ``/assets/images/duck-3c16d9220694c0e56d8648f25e6035e9.png``. If you update
the file, the version part of the URL will change automatically!

Serving Assets in dev vs prod
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the ``dev`` environment, the URL - ``/assets/images/duck-3c16d9220694c0e56d8648f25e6035e9.png``
is handled and returned by your Symfony app. For the ``prod`` environment, before

> deploy, you'll run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deploy, you should run:
```

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console asset-map:compile

This will physically copy all the files from your mapped directories into
``public/assets/`` so that they're served directly by your web server.

> See :ref:`Deployment <deployment>` for more details.

Reviewer: Maybe it is worth adding this command also in Deployments :)

    ------------------

    --------- ------------------
     Path      Namespace prefix
    --------- ------------------
    assets

    Mapped Assets
    -------------

    ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------
     Logical Path       Filesystem Path
    ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------
     app.js             assets/app.js
     styles/app.css     assets/styles/app.css
     images/duck.png    assets/images/duck.png

The "Logical Path" is the path to use when referencing the asset, like
from a template.

.. _importmaps-javascript:

Importmaps & Writing JavaScript
-------------------------------

All modern browsers support the JavaScript `import statement`_ and modern
`ES6`_ features like classes. So this code "just works":

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/app.js
    import Duck from './duck.js';

    const duck = new Duck('Waddles');
    duck.quack();

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/duck.js
    export default class {
        constructor(name) {
            this.name = name;
        }
        quack() {
            console.log(`${this.name} says: Quack!`);
        }
    }

> The ``assets/app.js`` file is loaded & executed thanks to the ``{{ importmap() }}``
> Twig function (see :ref:`import 'app' <importmap-app-entry>`). So, this code will work!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the ``{{ importmap() }}`` Twig function, which you'll learn all about in
this section, the ``assets/app.js`` file is loaded & executed by the browser.
```

.. tip::

    When importing relative files, be sure to include the ``.js`` extension.

>     Unlike in Node, in the browser environment, the extension is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Unlike in Node, the extension is required in the browser environment.
```

This reads a little more smooth to me (I interpreted "the browser environment" as a secondary sentence, or whatever you call this part of a sentence, instead of it being related to the "the extension is required" part)

    $ php bin/console importmap:require bootstrap

This adds the ``bootstrap`` package to your ``importmap.php`` file::

    // importmap.php
    return [
        // ...

        'bootstrap' => [
            'url' => 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/+esm',
        ],
    ];

Now you can import the ``bootstrap`` package like normal:

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { Alert } from 'bootstrap';
    // ...

If you want to download the package locally, use the ``--download`` option:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console importmap:require bootstrap --download

This will download the package into an ``assets/vendor/`` directory and update
the ``importmap.php`` file to point to it. You *should* commit this file to
your repository.

.. note::

    Sometimes, a package - like ``bootstrap`` - will have one or more dependencies,
    such as ``@popperjs/core``. The ``download`` option will download both the main
    package *and* its dependencies.

To update all 3rd party packages in your ``importmap.php`` file, run:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console importmap:update

How does the importmap Work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> How does this ``importmap.php`` file allow us to import ``bootstrap``? That's

Reviewer 2: `allow us to` -> `allows to` ?

We never use `we`, `us`, etc. in the docs. It's always about `you`, `your`, etc.

thanks to the ``{{ importmap() }}`` Twig function in ``base.html.twig``, which
outputs an `importmap`_:

.. code-block:: html

    <script type="importmap">{
        "imports": {
            "app": "/assets/app-4e986c1a2318dd050b1d47db8d856278.js",
            "/assets/duck.js": "/assets/duck-1b7a64b3b3d31219c262cf72521a5267.js",
            "bootstrap": "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/+esm"
        }
    }</script>

> Importmaps is a native browser feature. It works in all browsers thanks to
> a "shim" file that's included automatically by AssetMapper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importmaps are a native browser feature. It works in all browsers thanks to
a "shim" file that's included automatically by AssetMapper (but all modern browsers
already `support it natively <https://caniuse.com/import-maps>`_).
```

When you import ``bootstrap`` from your JavaScript, the browser will look at
the ``importmap`` and see that it should fetch the package from the URL.

.. _automatic-import-mapping:

But where did the ``/assets/duck.js`` import entry come from? Great question!

The ``assets/app.js`` file above imports ``./duck.js``. When you import a file using a
relative path, your browser looks for that file relative to the one importing
it. So, it would look for ``/assets/duck.js``. That URL *would* be correct,
except that the ``duck.js`` file is versioned. Fortunately, AssetMapper sees that
import and adds a mapping from ``/assets/duck.js`` to the correct, versioned
filename. The result: importing ``./duck.js`` just works!

Preloading and Initializing "app.js"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In addition to the importmap, the ``{{ importmap() }}`` Twig function also renders

Reviewer: We should add this new function to `/references/twig_reference.rst` as well.

an `es module shim`_ and a few other things, like a set of "preloads":

.. code-block:: html

    <link rel="modulepreload" href="/assets/app-4e986c1a2318dd050b1d47db8d856278.js">
    <link rel="modulepreload" href="/assets/duck-1b7a64b3b3d31219c262cf72521a5267.js">

In ``importmap.php``, each entry can have a ``preload`` option. If set to ``true``,
a ``<link rel="modulepreload">`` tag is rendered for that entry as well as for
any JavaScript files it imports (this happens for "relative" - ``./`` or ``../`` -
imports only). This is a performance optimization and you can learn more about below
in :ref:`Performance: Add Preloading <performance-preloading>`.

.. _importmap-app-entry:

The ``importmap()`` function also renders one more line:

.. code-block:: html

    <script type="module">import 'app';</script>

> So far, we've output an ``importmap`` and even hinted to the browser that it
> should preload some files. But we haven't actually told the browser to parse
> and execute any JavaScript. This line does that: it imports the ``app`` entry,
> which causes the code in ``assets/app.js`` to be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, the snippets shown export an ``importmap`` and even hinted to the
browser that it should preload some files. But the browser isn't yet told to
parse and execute any JavaScript. This line does that: it imports the ``app``
entry, which causes the code in ``assets/app.js`` to be executed.
```

Importing Specific Files From a 3rd Party Package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes you'll need to import a specific file from a package. For example,
suppose you're integrating `highlight.js`_ and want to import just the core
and a specific language:

.. code-block:: javascript

    import hljs from 'highlight.js/lib/core';
    import javascript from 'highlight.js/lib/languages/javascript';

    hljs.registerLanguage('javascript', javascript);
    hljs.highlightAll();

In this case, adding the ``highlight.js`` package to your ``importmap.php`` file
won't work: whatever your importing - e.g. ``highlight.js/lib/core`` - needs to
*exactly* match an entry in the ``importmap.php`` file.

Instead, use ``importmap:require`` and pass it the exact paths you need. This
also shows how you can require multiple packages at once:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console importmap:require highlight.js/lib/core highlight.js/lib/languages/javascript

Handling 3rd-Party CSS
----------------------

> With the ``importmap:require`` command, we can quickly use any JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the ``importmap:require`` command, you can quickly use any JavaScript
```

package. But what about CSS? For example, the ``bootstrap`` package also contains
a CSS file.

> Including CSS is a bit more manual, but still easy enough. To find the CSS,
> we recommend using `jsdelivr.com`_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including CSS is a bit more manual, but still easy enough. You need to find
a CDN that provides the required CSS files, for instance `jsdelivr.com`_:
```

Author: Is it because we want to avoid using `we`? I think the original sentence sounds better.

Reviewer: I wanted to do 2 things: avoid using "we" and we're currently not really describing what you need to do (use a CDN). Instead, we directly jump towards an example of such CDN.

Author: Hmm. If you want to download the asset, you don't need a CDN: you could find the package anywhere - like on npm - you can browser the files - https://www.npmjs.com/package/bootstrap?activeTab=code and then download the one your want.

jsdelivr just seems to have the "best experience" for finding the files. WDYT?

1. Search for the package on `jsdelivr.com`_.
2. Once on the package page (e.g. https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/bootstrap),
   sometimes the ``link`` tag to the CSS file will already be shown in the "Install" box.

> 3. If not, click the "Files" tab and find the CSS file you need. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Search for the package on `jsdelivr.com`_.
#. Once on the package page (e.g. https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/bootstrap),
   sometimes the ``link`` tag to the CSS file will already be shown in the "Install" box.
#. If not, click the "Files" tab and find the CSS file you need. For example,
```

   the ``bootstrap`` package has a ``dist/css/bootstrap.min.css`` file. If you're
   not sure which file to use, check the ``package.json`` file. Often
   this will have a ``main`` or ``style`` key that points to the CSS file.

Once you have the URL, include it in ``base.html.twig``:

.. code-block:: diff

    {% block stylesheets %}
    +   <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css">
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}">
    {% endblock %}

If you'd rather download the CSS file and include it locally, you can do that.
For example, you could download it to ``assets/vendor/bootstrap.min.css`` and
then include it with:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('vendor/bootstrap.min.css') }}">

Lazily Importing CSS from a JavaScript File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When using a bundler like Encore, you can import CSS from a JavaScript file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a bundler like :ref:`Encore <frontend-webpack-encore>`, you can import CSS from a JavaScript file:
```

see a list of *all* invalid imports in your app, run:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console cache:clear
    $ php bin/console debug:asset-map

Any invalid imports will show up as warnings on top of the screen (make sure
you have ``symfony/monolog-bundle`` installed):

.. code-block:: text

    WARNING   [asset_mapper] Unable to find asset "../images/ducks.png" referenced in "assets/styles/app.css".
    WARNING   [asset_mapper] Unable to find asset "./ducks.js" imported from "assets/app.js".

Missing Asset Warnings on Commented-out Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

AssetMapper looks in your JavaScript files for ``import`` lines so that it can
:ref:`automatically add them to your importmap <automatic-import-mapping>`.
This is done via regex and works very well, though it isn't perfect. If you
comment-out an import, it will still be found and added to your importmap. That
doesn't harm anything, but could be surprising.

If the imported path cannot be found, you'll see warning log when that asset
is being built, which you can ignore.

.. _deployment:

Deploying AssetMapper
---------------------

> When you're ready to deploy, just be sure to "compile" your assets during

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to remove the `just` word because it's one of those words considered hostile to newcomers (like "easily", "simply", etc.)

deployment:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console asset-map:compile

That's it! This will write all your assets into the ``public/assets/`` directory,
along with a few JSON files so that the ``importmap`` can be rendered lightning fast.

But to make sure your site is performant, be sure that your web server
(or a proxy) is running HTTP/2, is compressing your assets and setting
long-lived Expires headers on them. See :ref:`Optimization <optimization>` for
more details.

.. _optimization:

Optimizing Performance
----------------------

To make your AssetMapper-powered site fly, there are a few things you need to
do. If you want to take a shortcut, you can use a service like `Cloudflare`_,
which will automatically do most of these things for you:

> - **Use HTTP/2**: Your web server **must** be running HTTP/2 so the browser

Reviewer: or HTTP/3 I guess? "be running at least HTTP/2"

  can download assets in parallel. HTTP/2 is automatically enabled in Caddy
  and can be activated in Nginx and Apache. Or, proxy your site through a
  service like Cloudflare, which will automatically enable HTTP/2 for you.

> - **Compress your assets**: Your web server should compress your assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Compress your assets**: Your web server should compress (e.g. using gzip) your assets
```

Given "compress" and "minify" is often mixed up in a front-end pipeline, it might be a good idea to make sure we're not meaning Caddy automatically minifies your asset files :)

            'path' => '...',
            'preload' => true,
        ],
    ];

.. note::

    As described above, when you preload ``assets/app.js``, AssetMapper
    find all of the JavaScript files that it imports using a **relative** path
    and preloads those as well. However, it does not currently do this when
    you import "packages" (e.g. ``bootstrap``). These packages will already
    live in your ``importmap.php`` file, so their preload setting is handled
    explicitly in that file.

Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------

Does AssetMapper Combine Assets?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Nope! But that's because this is no longer necessary!

In the past, it was common to combine assets to reduce the number of HTTP
requests that were made. Thanks to advances in web servers like
HTTP/2, it's typically not a problem to keep your assets separate and let the
browser download them in parallel. In fact, by keeping them separate, when
you update one asset, the browser can continue to use the cached version of
all of your other assets.

See :ref:`Optimization <optimization>` for more details.

Does AssetMapper Minify Assets?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Nope! Minifying or compressing assets *is* important, but can easily be

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the `easily` word. Thanks.

done by your web server or a service like Cloudflare. See
:ref:`Optimization <optimization>` for more details.

Is AssetMapper Production Ready? Is it Performant?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Yes! Very! AssetMapper leverages advances in browser technology (like importmaps
and native ``import`` support) and web servers (like HTTP/2, which allows assets
to be downloaded in parallel). See the other questions about minimization and
combination and :ref:`Optimization <optimization>` for more details.

The https://ux.symfony.com site runs on AssetMapper and has a 99%
Google Lighthouse score.

> Does AssetMapper work in All Browser?

Reviewer 2: `All Browser` -> `All Browsers` ?

If you *do* need to support very old browsers, you should use a tool like
:ref:`Encore <frontend-webpack-encore>` instead of AssetMapper.

.. note::

    The `import statement`_ can't be polyfilled or shimmed to work on *every*
    browser. However, only the **oldest** browsers don't support it - basically
    IE 11 (which is no longer supported by Microsoft and has less than .4%
    of global usage).

    The ``importmap`` feature **is** shimmed to work in **all** browsers by AssetMapper.
    However, the shim doesn't work with "dynamic" imports:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        // this works
        import { add } from './math.js';

        // this will not work in the oldest browsers
        import('./math.js').then(({ add }) => {
            // ...
        });

    If you want to use dynamic imports and need to support certain older browsers
    (https://caniuse.com/import-maps), you can use an ``importShim()`` function
    from the shim: https://www.npmjs.com/package/es-module-shims#user-content-polyfill-edge-case-dynamic-import

Can I Use with Sass or Tailwind?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Sure! See :ref:`Using Tailwind CSS <asset-mapper-tailwind>` or :ref:`Using Sass <asset-mapper-sass>`.

Reviewer: Might be useful to add a little sentence that it requires a separate build step?

Author: You're one click away from seeing how it works. So in the interest of not repeating ourselves, I'd lean towards not adding it here.

Reviewer: Agreed

    body {
        background: $primary-color;
    }

Then, run the ``dart-sass`` binary in "watch" mode to build the CSS file to a
new ``assets/styles/app.css`` path:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ npx dart-sass assets/styles/app.scss assets/styles/app.css --watch

    # or with the standalone binary:
    ./sass assets/styles/app.scss assets/styles/app.css --watch

In your template, point directly to the ``styles/app.css`` file (``base.html.twig``
points to ``styles/app.css`` by default):

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/base.html.twig #}
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}">

Done! You can choose to ignore the ``assets/styles/app.css`` file from Git
or commit it to ease deployment. To prevent the source ``.scss`` files from being
exposed to the public, see :ref:`exclude_patterns <excluded_patterns>`.

Third-Party Bundles & Custom Asset Paths
----------------------------------------

All bundles that have a ``Resources/public/`` or ``public/`` directory will
automatically have that directory added as an "asset path", using the namespace:
``bundles/<BundleName>``. For example, if you're using `BabdevPagerfantaBundle`_

> if you run the ``debug:asset-map`` command, you'll see an asset whose logical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and you run the ``debug:asset-map`` command, you'll see an asset whose logical
```

``asset()`` function:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('bundles/babdevpagerfanta/css/pagerfanta.css') }}">

Actually, this path - ``bundles/babdevpagerfanta/css/pagerfanta.css`` - already
works in applications *without* AssetMapper, because the ``assets:install`` command copies
the assets from bundles into ``public/bundles/``. However, when AssetMapper is
enabled, the ``pagerfanta.css`` file will automatically  be versioned! It will
output someting like:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/bundles/babdevpagerfanta/css/pagerfanta-ea64fc9c55f8394e696554f8aeb81a8e.css">

Overriding 3rd-Party Assets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to override a 3rd-party asset, you can do that by creating a
file in your ``assets/`` directory with the same name. For example, if you
want to override the ``pagerfanta.css`` file, create a file at
``assets/bundles/babdevpagerfanta/css/pagerfanta.css``. This file will be
used instead of the original file.

.. note::

    If a bundle renders their *own* assets, but they use a non-default
    :ref:`asset package <asset-packages>`, then AssetMapper will not be used.

>     This happens, for example, with EasyAdminBundle.

Reviewer: Like to https://symfony.com/bundles/EasyAdminBundle/current/index.html , just like we do for BabdevPagerfantabundle?

> Importing Assets Outside of the assets/ Directory
> -------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing Assets Outside of the ``assets/`` Directory
-----------------------------------------------------
```

Then you can ``import '@symfony/ux-live-component'`` like normal. The ``--path``
option tells the command to point to a local file instead of a package.
In this case, the ``@symfony/ux-live-component`` argument could be anything:
whatever you use here will be the string that you can use in your ``import``.

If you get an error like this:

    The "some/package" importmap entry contains the path "vendor/some/package/assets/foo.js"
    but it does not appear to be in any of your asset paths.

It means that you're pointing to a valid file, but that file isn't in any of
your asset paths. You can fix this by adding the path to your ``asset_mapper.yaml``
file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/asset_mapper.yaml
    framework:
        asset_mapper:
            paths:
                - assets/
                - vendor/some/package/assets

Then try the command again.

Configuration Options
---------------------

You can see every available configuration option and some info by running:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console config:dump framework asset_mapper

Some of the more important options are described below.

> framework.asset_mapper.paths
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``framework.asset_mapper.paths``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

This config holds all of the directories that will be scanned for assets. This
can be a simple list:

.. code-block:: yaml

    framework:
        asset_mapper:
            paths:
                - assets/
                - vendor/some/package/assets

Of you can give each path a "namespace" that will be used in the asset map:

.. code-block:: yaml

    framework:
        asset_mapper:
            paths:
                assets/: ''
                vendor/some/package/assets/: 'some-package'

In this case, the "logical path" to all of the files in the ``vendor/some/package/assets/``
directory will be prefixed with ``some-package`` - e.g. ``some-package/foo.js``.

.. _excluded_patterns:

> framework.asset_mapper.excluded_patterns
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``framework.asset_mapper.excluded_patterns``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

This is a list of glob patterns that will be excluded from the asset map:

.. code-block:: yaml

    framework:
        asset_mapper:
            excluded_patterns:
                - '*/*.scss'

You can use the ``debug:asset-map`` command to double-check that the files
you expect are being included in the asset map.

> framework.asset_mapper.importmap_script_attributes
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``framework.asset_mapper.importmap_script_attributes``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

With the ``importmap:require`` command, you can quickly use any JavaScript
package. But what about CSS? For example, the ``bootstrap`` package also contains
a CSS file.

Including CSS is a bit more manual, but still easy enough. To find the CSS,
we recommend using `jsdelivr.com`_:

#. Search for the package on `jsdelivr.com`_.
#. Once on the package page (e.g. https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/bootstrap),
   sometimes the ``link`` tag to the CSS file will already be shown in the "Install" box.
#. If not, click the "Files" tab and find the CSS file you need. For example,
   the ``bootstrap`` package has a ``dist/css/bootstrap.min.css`` file. If you're
   not sure which file to use, check the ``package.json`` file. Often
   this will have a ``main`` or ``style`` key that points to the CSS file.

Once you have the URL, include it in ``base.html.twig``:

.. code-block:: diff

    {% block stylesheets %}
    +   <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css">
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset('styles/app.css') }}">
    {% endblock %}

If you'd rather download the CSS file and include it locally, you can do that.

> For example, you could download it to ``assets/vendor/bootstrap.min.css`` and

Reviewer 3: is this a manual process or done via a command?

Author: Currently manually - I've clarified the wording to be more clear :)

this can be done by importing its full URL, like from a CDN:

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { Alert } from 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/+esm';

But yikes! Needing to include that URL is a pain! Instead, we can add
this to our "importmap" via the ``importmap:require`` command. This command can
be used to download any `npm package`_:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console importmap:require bootstrap

This adds the ``bootstrap`` package to your ``importmap.php`` file::

    // importmap.php
    return [
        // ...

        'bootstrap' => [
            'url' => 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.0/+esm',
        ],
    ];

Now you can import the ``bootstrap`` package like normal:

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { Alert } from 'bootstrap';
    // ...

If you want to download the package locally, use the ``--download`` option:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console importmap:require bootstrap --download

This will download the package into an ``assets/vendor/`` directory and update
the ``importmap.php`` file to point to it. You *should* commit this file to

> your repository.

Reviewer 4: Is the vendor directory should also be committed or should be gitignored ? In that case, is the recipe add the folder to gitignore ?

Author: Hi! You can't actually commit directories to git - only files. But the meaning here is that you "commit the vendor/ directory and all files inside to git". So the `assets/vendor/` directory should NOT be ignored :)
